McDonald's Ikea and just about every
other big company were raising their
prices but now they are sounding the
alarm you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you in today's video
we are going to look at some of the
extreme and shocking displays of cost
increases over the last while let's not
look at the Central Bank let's not look
at the Federal Reserve don't look over
there of course because you might see
the truth no we'll of course point the
finger left right and Center what we
need to understand is What's Happening
Here how people are dealing with this
right now or unfortunately not dealing
with it and what comes at the end of it
all I'm going to show you some pretty
wild stuff beginning with this
McDonald's to launch $5 meal deal to
lure back diners after pricing out
lowincome customers with high prices so
of course you look at this what are
people doing they are going to go to
these places not for fine dining but for
cheap eats right you're going to go to
McDonald's you're going to have some
cheap eats you go through the drive-thru
you pick up something after work or at
any other time and you can get something
for $5 for $6 for $7 who knows maybe you
splurged and upssize the order to $8 but
now today it seems like nothing is
available at that price and certainly
this has gone out of control they're
mentioning the
$18 Big Mac and $6 side of hash browns
not in every Market of course but there
have been a few it's not just California
um I believe Connecticut was another one
that I saw as just an example so you can
see this you know going on all over the
place what happens the company basically
comes out and responds to it you know
that they would not put an option at $5
if they didn't have to we saw Walmart
coming out with their own private label
brand and they're all a about keeping
prices low on those particular items so
they will still stock the other items
which might might be more expensive but
they are going to keep these probably
shrink flated to the maximum but those
are all about having low prices on those
who knows what kind of ingredients will
be in those things but anyway that's the
way it goes um Ikea basically said you
know this is the CEO of Ikea I think I
covered on the previous video he said
specifically we are seeing a
problem right now with our consumers the
CEO doesn't admit that for fun because
that affects his salary so he's not
going to tell people that unless it's so
blatantly obvious and you know the
conference calls come up all right well
here's the story you know catching up
after years of solid sales and traffic
results McDonald's is now grappling with
a pullback from lowincome consumers who
account for a substantial portion of its
clientele so this is the issue here you
you've got a lot of people that are
going there because they're using it to
you know instead of going to the higher
end restaurants they're going to the
fast food restaurants because they want
that stuff for $5 and whatever but now
not the case at all and this has been a
very very clear push back very clear uh
but there's just an issue they have said
we cannot be profitable at these higher
prices they have at least suggested that
it's not just McDonald's there's a lot
of these companies and and it's a a lot
of small businesses too it's not just
big businesses but we can point the
finger at these big businesses um it's a
lot easier uh because we have this
spread not just across um you know the
city or you go further state or Province
it's across countries and we can kind of
compare prices over a much longer period
of time like we have more data so we can
do that okay but look at this um I know
exactly where this is but you can see it
for yourself
$118.99 some of the options as well as
$17.99 I don't know how you could
suggest that I you can get a
restaurant real restaurant level meal at
that price I mean there's no question
about that but that's what you're
getting okay so this is what people are
dealing with okay I get that if you have
seen any of these examples like shocking
examples let's talk about that in the
comment section I love hearing from
everybody from all over the place an $18
Big Mac meal is bad for America
throughout America more people can't
afford to have a meal and talk with
others at fast food places that have
long doubled as community centers um you
could see they give examples they're
talking about it and certainly um what
you know times have changed essentially
right and this inflation if we're just
going to say hey it's about the greed of
Corporations and we don't look at the
devaluation of the currency and start to
figure it out and why this has gotten to
this point and how corporations have
been able to do this and now they're
basically suggesting well uh we're
losing business as a result of it right
so there's a lot of things not just one
thing and do corporations love to
increase their prices of course of
course all right um and so this is the
thing a lot of people would just say hey
eat at home home well there's no
question about it uh you you eat at home
you can probably save money okay but
there was a time in which it if you
wanted this cheap food it would be a
much more reasonable price but food at
home has also gone up dramatically and
that's why I've told people for a long
time we have to start making these
choices to actively seek out ways that
we can get our food at a lower cost
because that price can only go so far
down before it starts bankrupting all
these companies and then what happens is
the big companies buy the smaller
companies we lose competition and things
get more expensive that's that's a
matter of fact what people want to do is
they want to regulate the food prices
they want to regulate what people get
paid they want to have government
basically go in and step in and
basically say okay this is the price for
bread this is the price for you know
water this is the price for all these
different things govern
come in and do that but we know that the
historic examples of places that do that
it's really bad usually the circumstance
really bad so we don't want it to get to
that point but why aren't we talking
about those behind the curtain and the
Very obvious circumstance of devaluing
currency and looking at how bad Society
gets for that period of time afterward
that's what we should be discussing
Whole Food CEO announces major changes
to store that'll help customers save
money and minimize the impact of
inflation this is Whole Foods this is
generally reserved for those with higher
salaries and so on at least you would
think so um and here we go this you know
the guy is basically trying to say hey
we're going to do a few things 3,000 of
our products the 365 brand thoughtfully
sourced products all right
um I don't
know how exactly they're going to do
that but usually it's with shrink
inflation okay I don't know it's they're
not going to take a cut on their profit
that's for sure so that's what they're
saying okay and this has a direct impact
on as you see here average credit card
debt in the US is now soaring past
6500 that is a shocking number if you're
carrying a balance of 6,500 at 20%
25% you are getting hit hard hit hard
New Jersey residents leading the nation
with an average debt of
$8,155
per credit card I feel bad if that was
done because of you know you just don't
care and you just put it on let me buy a
TV let me buy the iPhone let me buy
that's one thing but if you're in Dire
Straits and you're just you you were
panicking you need the food or you need
this and that and okay that's a
different story but this really breaks
my heart when I hear about people that
are are suffering and uh they're being
burdened because it's hard to get out of
that it's really hard to get out of that
now I know a guy personally who just
recently the guy booked his trip on his
credit card okay went into dead for that
which is not wise he's a young guy
22 um came back when he came back to his
job he then worked as many hours as the
employer would allow him so that he
could then pay that off so at least he
was responsible enough to then realize
hey I don't want to go in the cycle of
Deb forever that's what we need to try
to do as best we can right but most
people they just get into the cycle of
NeverEnding debt they get used to paying
the minimums and then of course you you
know it it becomes a serious problem
this just showing us in a map form where
people are just getting absolutely
crushed okay absolutely crushed here we
have it though going up another level
seriously underwater home
mortgages tick up across the US
seriously underwater home mortgages tick
up across the US roughly 1 in 37 homes
is now considered seriously underwater
in the US and that share is much higher
across a swath of of Southern States
we're seeing a few things going on like
in Florida and other places where the
trends have reversed this is the big
problem we're seeing it now the you know
we're not back in financial crisis
housing crisis time frame there's no
question about that but there's other
things that have happened here way more
student debt you have people with Med
Med medical care problems that that they
didn't have as much of back then there
are a lot of things that are being added
up here and UNT fortunately this cannot
be reversed by um any like if we just
keep going on this trajectory not going
to be reversed okay um looking at this
the great wealth transfer there are um
there's talking about Millennials and
there's a divide in between Millennials
but certainly Millennials are set to
inherit some potentially is what they
say a lot of money and what is known as
the great wealth transfer baby boomers
are expected to pass down between 70
trillion and 90 trillion in wealth over
the next 20 years there's just a problem
here that if they're expecting this
money to come and pay off their debt
well then they're going to be in big
trouble because that debt will burden
them before the time in which they get
the wealth transfer so do not rely on
somebody else's wealth to save you from
the disaster that we're dealing with
right now here today and then as we look
at the demographics issue there's no
there's no question you can see here
uh impending demographic shift in which
older adults in the US will outnumber
children for the first time in history
presents significant societal and
economic challenges and opportunities
the shift often called the silver
tsunami is expected to impact multiple
facets of society profoundly we know
that there are many cases of this you
look at Europe you look at Japan
suffering the worst out of all of this
and what is the big issue here is that
there's no way to fund this Ponzi scheme
that we have found ourselves in
what can you do as an individual don't
just sit there don't just say oh you
know what what can I no no no that's not
how this works you need to take action
today number one thing you can do find
out how to get some of your food for
cheaper how do we do that we buy in bulk
we buy things directly from the source
as best or close as we can we go to the
food terminals number one or we can go
directly to the farmers people just say
yeah yeah yeah I know that no you have
to do this you have to buy more in bulk
now hey what are you gonna do with that
bulk food you can go to your neighbors
to your people in your community and you
can share okay now we're moving into the
summer time frame where you can be
growing crops you could do that if you
don't have your own space at Community
Gardens just type in Community Gardens
and the name of your city likely you're
going to find some okay uh and by the
way I've seen it many many times before
with old ladies on the side of the road
picking the dandelion free food okay so
let's not you know wherever we can save
we have to do that we have to get smart
about that at the same time uh a lot of
people they they have a skill today and
they're not using it and those skills
are valuable and they can monetize that
skill okay whatever it is if you're a
good cook if you can bake if you can
shovel driveways if you can do
landscaping whatever it is I know that
you can do it and you could use that as
some you know basically a way to bring
in some income on the side
maybe it it has something to do with
your day-to-day job or maybe not maybe
it's just a passion I know some people
they go to work the golf course on the
weekends not because you know for any
other reason other than they just want
to be around Golf and it's fun so that's
great you got to do what you can it
doesn't have to be slave labor okay do
what you can you have to take initiative
today I hope this was information that
you appreciated if it was hit that
thumbs up button I do want to thank you
for that if you want to learn more about
what I can offer to you there's a link
at the top of this description read
through it at the bottom there and
you'll get more stuff I'll see you
tomorrow take care